# Introduction
*TODO*

# Training Data
### Database of U.S. vehicle makes and models
To create a representative sample of vehicle make and model images for the U.S. passenger vehicle market. we rely on a register of vehicles from [back4app.com](https://www.back4app.com/database/back4app/car-make-model-dataset). A local copy of this database are stored locally at `./create_training_images/make_model_database.csv` along with the script to generate this extract at `./create_training_images/get_make_model_db.py`. This local database copy contains the universe of vehicle makes and models from calendar year 2000 onwards. At the time the data were queried, this database contained information on vehicles up through and including 2022 models. The database contained information on 59 distinct vehicle manufacturers and 1,032 detailed make-model combinations over the period. 

We drop 4 small vehicle manufacturers (e.g. Fisker, Polestar, Panoz, Rivian), reducing the overall number of distinct vehicle manufacturers in the data to 55. To reduce the number of vehicle make-model combinations, related detailed vehicle models are combined together (e.g. Ford F-150 Super Cab and Ford F350 Super Duty Crew Cab are combined into a single Ford F-Series category) using the script at `./create_training_images/restrict_population_make_models.py`. This reduced the number of unique make-model combinations over the period to 656. The restricted vehicle database is stored at `./create_training_images/make_model_database_mod.csv`. A full list of vehicle makes, models, and years available is below. *TODO*

### Image dataset creation
Having defined the population of vehicles of interest, we scrape Google Images to download our training dataset. To capture sufficient variation *within* each vehicle make-model combination over time we scrape images using the detailed vehicle model descriptor, combined with the vehicle category (e.g. coupe, sedan, hatchback, SUV, comvertible, wagon, van, pickup), for every year available. In told, this produced 8,779 unique make-(detailed-)model-category-year combinations.
 
For every make-(detailed-)model-category-year combination, we scrape 100 images, which typically results in 85-90 savable PNG or JPG images. We store these data in separate directories on disk based on make-(aggregated-)model-year.In each directory, approximately 95% of saved images are exterior vehicle photographs with the vast majority corresponding to the correct vehicle make, model and year. 